activate-polyfills guide (#1476)
TBD54566975/developer.tbd.website: site/docs/web5/build/decentralized-web-nodes/upgrade-to-dwa.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 10
---

import CodeSnippet from '@site/src/components/CodeSnippet';

# Upgrade to DWA

> A **Decentralized Web App (DWA)** is a Progressive Web App (PWA) that incorporates Web5 functionalities, providing offline capabilities, Decentralized Resource Locators (DRLs), and offline synchronization of Decentralized Web Nodes (DWNs). For a practical implementation, refer to the [DWA starter app](https://github.com/TBD54566975/dwa-starter).

Reviewer: Link to resource to read more?

Author: I linked to a blog post you wrote. Not too sure what if I have resources on DWAs.

> A **Decentralized Web App (DWA)** is a Progressive Web App (PWA) that incorporates Web5 functionalities, providing offline capabilities, Decentralized Resource Locators (DRLs), and offline synchronization of Decentralized Web Nodes (DWNs). For a practical implementation, refer to the [DWA starter app](https://github.com/TBD54566975/dwa-starter).

Reviewer: Link to DWN guide

Author: Linked!

> ## Import packages

Reviewer: Before jumping into the code can we add a sentence or two of what the point of this page is?

Author: done

```js
import { activatePolyfills } from '@web5/api';
```

## Set up a service worker

> Configure a service worker to activate Web5 polyfills while managing caching and data synchronization tasks.

Reviewer: Not totally sure what this means - is this something that devs will more inherently understand?

Reviewer 2: service workers are something that PWA developers understand: https://web.dev/learn/pwa/service-workers

Author: I'll add a link to that that then.

Author: Thanks @chris-tbd and @leordev! I updated the doc. I tend to be a little wordy/verbose in documentation, so I was trying to be terse and get to the point, but I think I was too terse 😆 . Hopefully, this strikes a better balance.

```js
// Activate Web5 Service Worker Polyfills
activatePolyfills({
  onCacheCheck() {
    return {
      ttl: 30000,
    };
  },
});
```

## Fetch data via DRLs

> After you [write records](/docs/web5/build/decentralized-web-nodes/write-to-dwn) to a DWN, you can Decentralized Resource Locators (DRLs) to fetch data directly from the decentralized network.

Reviewer: How are `DRLs` resolved/used? Can I just use one via my browser, or do I need a special app/library?

Author: Hopefully, my updated explanation is more clear!

---
sidebar_position: 10
---

import CodeSnippet from '@site/src/components/CodeSnippet';

> # Upgrade to DWA

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Accessing Data with DRLs
```

what do you think of something like this for the title? I'm thinking i may not be upgrading an existing app, so the current title might not grab my attention

Reviewer 3: if you change the title, I'd just delete the next header and go right into the text of that section

Reviewer 3: also if you change the title, change the file name too

Author: I like your suggestion!

## What is a DWA?

A [Decentralized Web App (DWA)](/blog/dwas-vs-pwas) is a Progressive Web App (PWA) that incorporates Web5 functionalities, providing offline capabilities and offline synchronization of [Decentralized Web Nodes (DWNs)](/docs/web5/learn/decentralized-web-nodes/). 

> This guide will walk you through upgrading your PWA to a DWA. For a practical implementation, refer to the [DWA starter app](https://github.com/TBD54566975/dwa-starter).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This guide will walk you through how to read from DWNs within your DWA. For a practical implementation, refer to the [DWA starter app](https://github.com/TBD54566975/dwa-starter).
```

## Import packages

> Import the following package to handle interactions with Decentralized Web Nodes (DWNs) and manage offline data:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Import the following package to handle interactions with DWNs and manage offline data:
```

```js
import { activatePolyfills } from '@web5/api';
```

## Set up a service worker
[Service workers](https://web.dev/learn/pwa/service-workers) enable offline functionality and background processing.

The following snippet configures a service worker to activate polyfills, manage caching, and handle data synchronization tasks in the background:

```js
// Activate Web5 Service Worker Polyfills
activatePolyfills({
  onCacheCheck() {
    return {
      ttl: 30000,
    };
  },
});
```

## Fetch data via DRLs

> Decentralized Resource Locators (DRLs) enable direct access to data stored in Decentralized Web Nodes (DWNs). After writing records to a DWN, you can use DRLs (prefixed with `dweb://`) to fetch data. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Decentralized Resource Locators (DRLs) enable direct access to data stored in DWNs. After writing records to a DWN, you can use DRLs (prefixed with `dweb://`) to fetch data. 
```

> Decentralized Resource Locators (DRLs) enable direct access to data stored in Decentralized Web Nodes (DWNs). After writing records to a DWN, you can use DRLs (prefixed with `dweb://`) to fetch data. 

Reviewer 3: the prefix note doesn't match the example:

```
https://dweb/${did}/read/records/${recordId
```

Author: Oh true. It should be dweb/ . Thats a typo on my part

> Decentralized Resource Locators (DRLs) enable direct access to data stored in Decentralized Web Nodes (DWNs). After writing records to a DWN, you can use DRLs (prefixed with `dweb://`) to fetch data. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Decentralized Resource Locators (DRLs) enable direct read access to permussioned data stored in DWNs. To read records from a DWN, you can use DRLs (prefixed with `dweb://`) to fetch the data. 
```

Author: done

Here's how to fetch a record from a DWN using a DRL:

<CodeSnippet snippetName="drlFetchReadRecord"/>

> DRLs return JSON data that can be used throughout your web app, from populating UI elements to setting attributes on HTML tags.

Reviewer 3: should show an example below of using it inline as the `src` of an `<img>` or something like that
